Hello everyone this is Breanna Rutter author
of one of my most popular books that natural
hair Bible and founder of howtoblackhair.com
for these videos I answer the questions you
all send me via email so if any of you have
any questions you will likely answer be sure
to check out the description box below for
additional information today this video is
because of an email I received from Amina
Amina emailed me because she says that she's
looking for a more natural approach to how
to recover from damaged hair she wants some
help with how to use products that don't have
any chemicals or much at all because she has
a small child now so what I'm going to do
is suggest some natural things you can do
to help your hair recover from any damage
that you may have done to it so so the very
first thing I want to suggest is that coconut
oil would be your number one friend coconut
oil does so much for the hair and for the
scalp it's just endless for all the benefits
that it does for you it's a great deep conditioner
it's a great moisturizer it can be a great
sealant for some it also helps your hair to
not lose as much protein when you're washing
and so much more so that's why for my very
first tip I highly suggest that you have coconut
oil on hand and what I want you to do is make
sure that you are conditioning weekly with
coconut alone to help you to recover from
your damaged hair whether your hair is damaged
from using too many chemicals from any chemical
treatments from using too much heat or other
products that may have caused major hair damage
so now the second tip that I'm going to suggest
is that most times when you have damaged hair
is usually because there is a loss of protein
in your hair it is very easy to recover from
dry hair by simply incorporating more moisturizing
products but in most cases if it's hard for
you to recover from that is usually because
you have a loss of protein so my second tip
is that you start to if coconut oil is it
working for you, you have two start actually
do deep conditioning treatment with eggs or
hydrolyzed protein now there is a difference
between the protein in the two because with
eggs the protein molecules are larger which
only bound to the outside of your hair strand
so it is not very intensive it is just more
of a light protein treatment before an intense
protein treatment whether protein molecules
are small enough to migrate inside of your
hair strands you have to use hydrolyzed protein
so you can use keratin or you can use wheat
protein so I highly suggest that you use hydrolyzed
protein as a treatment to help you recover
from damaged hair now the third to that I'm
going to suggest also is to make sure you
just limit your use of heat that you're using
or chemicals at this point I wouldn't even
say limit I would just say eliminate all of
it because you have damaged hair and you have
a lot of recovering to do so make sure that
you are not using any hot tools until your
hair gets back healthy you are not doing any
relaxer treatments or any chemical coloring
treatments to your hair until it gets back
healthy and even evaluate the type of hair
products you're using because most times the
products you are using could be causing the
damage to your hair so I hope this is help
you I want to thank you for your email and
now that you have all this knowledge can incorporate
whatever you need to help you get your hair
back balanced and healthy thank you and also
thank you all watching this video I hope that
you found this helpful and until next time
I will see you all in the next one